Acid88 - a testsuite for cycle-exact 8088 PC/XT emulators

This program executes the testcases that found timing issues in the XTCE
emulator, counts the number of cycles that each of these testcases takes to
execute, and compares them to a stored expected value.

While it is not guaranteed that getting full marks in this program will
guarantee that your emulator is cycle-exact, it will least put you in the
same league as the most accurate emulators I currently know about, and should
allow your emulator to run 8088 MPH correctly if it also has good composite
CGA and PC speaker support.

Note that Acid88 is currently focussed on timing, and is not a thorough
functional testsuite.

Requirements:
* Genuine (or accurately emulated) Intel 8088 CPU running at 4.77MHz (4x PIT
clock).
* Standard PC/XT hardware (PIT/PIC/DMAC).
* At least 128kB free conventional RAM.
* Some tests will only pass with the 1501512 XT BIOS (the "JMP FAR rb" and
"CALL FAR rb" undocumented instructions cause control flow to pass into the
ROM area, and require byte 0xCC at address 0xFFF70 to resume correctly with
the current implementation.
* DOS 2.0 or later.

On running acid88.com with no arguments, the program will iterate through all
tests and display a count of the number of passing tests and the total number
of tests. If any tests fail, it will also display the number of the first
failing test, the number of cycles it took to execute, and the number of cycles
it should have taken. If your emulator is running very fast, the count may
become negative, wrap, and be displayed as a large integer (approaching 65535).

The test number can be used as a command line argument (e.g. "acid88 123") to
run just that single test, for the purposes of emulator debugging. The code
under test will be placed at 10A8:0000 - you can place a breakpoint at this
location and start logging when this breakpoint is hit.

You can also obtain a cycle-by-cycle log of how the same code behaves on a real
machine by running Acid88 on the XT Server - http://www.reenigne.org/xtserver .
Create a bootable floppy disk image containing acid88.com and an autoexec.bat
file to launch Acid88 with the test number in question. Upload this image file
to the XT Server and acid88 will activate the ISA bus sniffer at the
appropriate time to produce a log of this test.

The latest version of acid88 can be found at:
https://www.reenigne.org/software/acid88.zip

The latest source code for acid88 can be found at:
https://github.com/reenigne/reenigne/tree/master/8088/acid88
